11 long years ago, back when I was a
little dougllet, I picked up Adobe
Premiere and I tried to edit videos and
I fell in love with it immediately. This
clicked with my brain like nothing else
had ever done. And for years, my dream
became, I'm going to try to make it as a
YouTuber. I'm going to try to make a
career out of this. I love this. Oh my
god. And finally, in 2019, after
launching Doug Doug as a channel and
figuring out my creative style, it
worked and it happened. It was like on
my birthday and I hit 100,000 subs just
all of a sudden out of nowhere. And I've
been doing it full-time with everything
I have, all of it, for seven years
since. And now it is time for a break.
And I am going to be retiring this
channel, Doug Doug. I'm still going to
be around. I I still plan on making
things. I'm still going to stream on
Twitch. I'm going to have a second
YouTube channel still going to do my
podcast. But this channel and what it
kind of means to me is retiring. Now,
you might ask, why are you retiring if
you're still going to stream and make
videos? And and so to me, like Doug Doug
retiring is a specific type of video.
The format of this channel has been
three things. One, I want a video to
have a really interesting creative
premise, like some cool or interesting
idea or challenge. Two, I want it to
have a really interesting story that's
satisfying. There should be fun and
unexpected moments, and the story should
conclude in some compelling way. And
three, I think that story should be told
really well with editing, with a lot of,
you know, music and voice over and a lot
of thought about pacing. That's what a
Doug Doug video is to me. And that type
of video is awesome, but it is obviously
very creatively intense. But the
streaming side, you know, I'm I need to
plan streams a lot more than the average
streamer. I'm really trying to think
through what's a cool interesting idea.
How do I develop it? How do I increase
the odds that it's going to be like a
great story that's really fun with the
viewers? And then streams themselves
take a bunch of time and energy kind of
by definition. And you got to do a good
job at the stream or it's not going to
be entertaining enough for YouTube. And
then editing is a lot of work. Used to
do all of it myself and it' be like 40
or 50 hours of editing per video. But
even now with a team of editors. I still
finish a a stream and then I like write
out a whole plan for the thing. I'm
writing scripts and voice over. We get
in calls for hours going through the
video like frame by frame and deciding
what exactly it's going to look like and
feel like. I am still deeply involved
even now with every single YouTube
video. And you never know what's going
to work. You can't like guarantee that a
stream is going to be awesome. That's
just not how creativity works. Instead,
you just got to try a lot of shots on
goal and you just got to try many
different things. So, like the more you
do, the more you try, the more effort
you put in over and over and over and
over, the more chances you're going to
have some of those hits. And so, when my
channel suddenly took off in 2019, I
obviously didn't want to waste the
opportunity. And I wanted to make as
many of these types of videos as I
possibly could. And my goal since then
has always been with varying degrees of
consistency, two highquality streams
every week on Twitch and one awesome,
highly edited, really compelling YouTube
video every 2 weeks. And I have averaged
that actually over the years. But I've
kind of noticed two things. One, I just
think this type of format, while it's
awesome in so many ways, is just not
feasible on a weekly basis forever, like
in the way YouTube kind of wants. I
think often about what TV people do. If
you think about the guys who make South
Park, they show up for seven weeks like
twice a year. They show up for seven
weeks and they work really hard for that
seven weeks and then they're just off
for like four months. People in
traditional Hollywood, you're generally
doing these big bursts of work and then
you have a big chunk off. And with
YouTube and Twitch, it's endless. There
isn't, you know, you don't get weeks off
really if you aren't making stuff other
people are. YouTube and Twitch will show
you analytics all the time saying, "Hey,
you're actually falling behind. You're
getting less viewers. That video didn't
do as well. That one did well, but you
should do more of it, but not quite the
same cuz we don't like series anymore
cuz we just changed our algorithm again.
The whole system of being a content
creator. While it's this is obviously
not like the hardest job in the world.
It is by far the most stressful job I've
had. And I've had some stressful jobs.
It doesn't feel like you can ever turn
your brain off from thinking about
content and focusing. Even if you take a
vacation and you're like, "Oh, take a
break." You just feel farther behind.
And then if you have a team, you're like
really worried about supporting them as
well. So there's never really a sense
that you can disconnect from this stuff
in the same way that with a more
traditional job like you go to your work
and then you come home. That is totally
absent here because you know being
creative is endless there. There's no
end point to it and the more you put in
the better it will be and that just goes
forever. And the second thing is I've
just naturally become interested in
other things over the years. I you know
I I looked at the channel I've made over
200 Doug Doug videos. That's a lot when
every video like, you know, is a ton of
effort. And ultimately, like I know I
can do this format that I've done and
I'm excited to explore other formats of
streams or videos or whatever. I I don't
know if they'll work or if they won't.
You know, I've been I think hesitant to
substantially change things over the
years because holy [__] what an amazing
opportunity. I I don't want to like
potentially risk all this. I don't want
to do a new thing that might not work.
You know, again, YouTube's always like
shooting bells and whistles at you and
Twitch. You always want the the machine
to be fed. But unfortunately, there's no
real way to add time for other things
into a schedule like this. If I want to
go try a, you know, a month-long
programming challenge to see if I can
make a video game or something, you just
can't do that when you're trying to
crank out this many streams and this
many YouTube videos with this type of
format. If you're playing the YouTube
and Twitch game, unfortunately, it does
not leave almost any room to explore
other things. and it's been seven years
and I'm ready to explore other stuff or
at least have the opportunity to explore
other stuff. So, what does that actually
mean in practice? I'm still going to
stream on Twitch. And that might seem
weird, but the change is going to be
instead of trying to do two streams a
week or having the streams be in this
certain type of format, I'm going to
stream really whenever I feel like it
and what I feel like, which is, you
know, the ultimate creative dream. So,
there might be a week where I show up
and I'm like, I'm going to do some
Silkong challenge all week long. I'm
going to do a programming challenge all
week long. Maybe I stream, you know, 10
days in a row and then there's probably
going to be a month where I just don't
stream. Ultimately, trying to squeeze
streams in every single week does really
restrict the amount of time I can then
go explore other ideas cuz it just fills
up a lot of time. So, going forward, I'm
just not I'm really going to have no
expectations on streaming. And on top of
that, I'm going to keep making YouTube
videos on my second channel. Uh my team
is still going to help me edit videos
and put them out. But there's a big big
difference between Doug Doug this
channel and Doug Doug Doug the second
channel. And you may or may not have
noticed this, but the difference is that
a second channel video doesn't have my
involvement. That is entirely my team. I
do, like a lot of other streamers, end
my stream and I write some notes and
then I pass it off to the team and they
edit it and and produce it and get it
out right with occasional oversight for
me. But for the most part, it's just
it's just them and they do a fantastic
job. And it's worth saying because I
forgot that the team does intentionally
edit those videos a little bit slower in
pacing than the main channel ones just
so that they do feel distinct. But
that's different than again the style of
main channel video where I'm like really
involved with the process. I'm it's not
just scripting and voiceover. It's me
being in calls really overseeing the
direction and structure of how I think
these things should feel. So the second
channel video, we're going to keep
putting stuff out there and it's going
to reflect, you know, whatever I'm doing
creatively in other areas of my life.
I'm just not going to be as personally
involved with those videos. For some of
you, maybe you won't even notice the
difference and that would be awesome.
Like that would be sick if it turns out
like I wasn't even that important. But
um you know for me that is an incredibly
important distinction. It's I'm focusing
on creating interesting things. YouTube
editing and oversight and trying to hit
the algorithm and all that stuff. That
is not going to be my focus anymore. And
that is going to free up an enormous
amount of creative bandwidth which I'm
really excited about. And I'm going to
keep doing my weekly podcast if you are
not aware of it. It's called Lemonade
Stand. It's really really fun. Started
that this year. We, you know, if you
want to hear about current events and
all that type of stuff in with some more
like levity and fun, I really like that
project. I I made a video earlier this
year about how I was struggling with it.
Truth is, I'm like I'm really proud of
it and I feel like I've learned a lot
and developed a lot and I've just enjoy
a ton doing a project with like other
creative people who I who I really
admire. So, that's awesome. And that'll
continue to be, you know, like a weekly
thing that I'm doing. But other than
those things, what am I going to do with
my free time? You might ask. Well, I
I've been thinking about that and
reflecting on the fact that I've had
kind of four priorities in my life the
past couple years. And number one is
YouTube and Twitch. And number two
recently is the podcast. Number three is
like explore creative things. And number
four is my personal life. Personal life
has been solidly at the bottom. And what
I'm going to be trying to do is flip
that. Exactly. I I I don't think my
personal life and my social life have
gotten the uh let's say creative energy
that they deserve or or the focus that
they've deserved because I've been super
[__] passionate about this job. And I
think there's nothing inherently wrong
with that to like really push myself to
make something awesome and to make an
impact. But to me, it's clear now like
it's time for me to really put some time
into taking care of myself in these ways
as well as to have more time for
creative exploration. This sounds weird,
but the more I step away when I do take
like two days away from work and I'm not
thinking about work, I end up having
more creative ideas than when I'm
working, like giving myself space away
from stuff or researching a new like
playing a new game or exploring a new
type of modding or a new type of coding
or or watching YouTube videos tends to
inspire me a whole lot. And so I want to
have a lot of space carved where I can
just explore things and see what happens
from them because inevitably when you're
working super hard that just gets pushed
to the side, right? And then third is
going to be this podcast that I still
want to put effort into every week. And
then lastly is going to be YouTube and
Twitch where I think there's a world
where I end up streaming and making a
lot of stuff, maybe even more stuff, I
don't know. But again, I want that to be
something that naturally results from
having a lot of time for creative
exploration and relaxation rather than
that being the starting point. And I try
to fit in these other things if
possible. So yeah, I'm I'm really
excited for this to be honest. I I'm uh
I'm really optimistic about the future.
And of course, I I could have just kind
of like made less things over time, but
I like the idea of kind of wrapping this
up with intentionality. I'm I'm clear
that I'm ready to to try new things, to
try a new format, you know, and I would
rather just move on to something new
rather than say, "Okay, now it's only
going to be one a month rather than once
every two weeks." Plus, this year,
unfortunately, was just extraordinarily
hard for me. There's a lot of
challenging personal things going on.
And so, uh, I think it's a good time to
kind of like close this chapter and
start something new. You know, I want to
end by saying I am so incredibly
[snorts] grateful that I got to do this.
I think not only did I get to do it, I I
I know with 100% certainty that I gave
this my all and I'm super proud of that
and I would not change that for
anything. I am super proud of the team
that I built and got to work with.
Amazing people. I am so lucky to have an
audience that is [__] awesome. Like,
let's be honest, most of the best
moments from my streams or videos are
when it's me and my viewers and my
audience, y'all. We're making a story or
an adventure together. And like, that's
still my favorite part of streaming. And
I love it. And I'm so grateful to have
people who wanted to spend their time
and energy with me making stupid ass
adventures. And I'm really grateful for
people who have reached out and said
nice messages. That sounds cheesy, but I
think at the beginning of all this, it
was more like I just want to make
creative stuff, as I think a lot of
people do. But over time, people
reaching out and saying that, you know,
like something I did was inspiring to
start content creation or programming or
just help them through a hard time, that
is like genuinely the most meaningful
part of this job now. So, getting to
hear that I was able to have an impact
on some people's lives, even if it's,
you know, 100 people or whatnot, means a
ton. It means a ton and I will always
view the work at this job as worth it
because of that. So, that's it. Thanks
so much for watching. I appreciate you
all very much. And I am excited, very
excited to see y'all in whatever the
next thing ends up being.